infra/README.md, before:

# Infrastructure Documentation

This directory contains the Bicep templates for deploying the spec-to-agents application to Azure.

## Overview

The infrastructure consists of:
- **Azure AI Foundry**: Hub for AI models and agents
- **Container Apps**: Hosts the web application
- **Container Registry**: Stores Docker images
- **Bing Grounding (Optional)**: Provides web search capabilities for agents
- **Monitoring**: Application Insights and Log Analytics

## Deployment

Deploy the infrastructure using Azure Developer CLI:

```bash
# Deploy everything (provision + deploy)
azd up

# Just provision infrastructure
azd provision

# Just deploy application code
azd deploy
```

## Configuration

### Bing Grounding Connection

The infrastructure includes optional support for Bing Grounding, which enables agents to perform real-time web searches.

**To enable Bing Grounding:**

Set the `BING_GROUNDING_NAME` environment variable before running `azd up`:

```bash
# Set the Bing resource name
azd env set BING_GROUNDING_NAME mybing

# Deploy the infrastructure
azd up
```

**Default behavior:**
- If `BING_GROUNDING_NAME` is not set or is empty, Bing Grounding will not be deployed
- The parameter in `main.parameters.json` has a default value of `mafbing`, which means Bing will be created unless explicitly disabled

**To disable Bing Grounding:**

```bash
# Set to empty string to skip Bing deployment
azd env set BING_GROUNDING_NAME ""

# Deploy the infrastructure
azd up
```

**What gets deployed:**
- A new Bing Grounding resource (kind: `Bing.Grounding`, SKU: `G1`)
- A connection from the AI Foundry account to the Bing resource
- The connection uses API key authentication
- Category: `GroundingWithBingSearch`

**Outputs:**
After deployment, the following outputs are available:
- `BING_GROUNDING_NAME`: Name of the Bing resource
- `BING_GROUNDING_ID`: Resource ID of the Bing resource
- `BING_CONNECTION_NAME`: Name of the connection in AI Foundry

**Using Bing Grounding in agents:**
Agents can reference the Bing connection by name (`bing-grounding`) to perform web searches. The connection is configured to allow agents to use it for grounding their responses with real-time web data.

### Other Parameters

The following parameters can be configured via environment variables:

- `AZURE_ENV_NAME`: Environment name (required)
- `AZURE_LOCATION`: Azure region (required)
- `AI_FOUNDRY_NAME`: Name prefix for AI Foundry account (default: `foundry`)
- `FOUNDRY_PROJECT_NAME`: Name prefix for AI Foundry project (default: `project`)

## File Structure

```
infra/
├── main.bicep                  # Main orchestration template
├── main.parameters.json        # Parameter mappings from environment variables
├── abbreviations.json          # Resource naming abbreviations
└── app/                        # Application-specific modules
    ├── ai-foundry.bicep        # AI Foundry account and project
    ├── bing-grounding.bicep    # Bing Grounding connection
    ├── container-app.bicep     # Container Apps environment and app
    ├── container-registry.bicep # Azure Container Registry
    └── monitoring.bicep        # Application Insights and Log Analytics
```

## Validation

To validate the Bicep templates without deploying:

```bash
cd infra
az bicep build --file main.bicep
```

Note: You may see warnings about conditional resources (BCP318, BCP422) and Bing resource types (BCP081). These are expected and do not prevent deployment.

## Troubleshooting

### Bing Grounding deployment fails

If the Bing Grounding deployment fails:
1. Ensure your subscription has the Bing resource provider registered
2. Verify that the Bing resource name is globally unique
3. Check that your subscription has quota for Bing Grounding resources

### Connection creation fails

If the connection creation fails:
1. Ensure the AI Foundry account is deployed successfully before the Bing connection
2. Check that the Bing resource is accessible and has a valid API key
3. Verify that the connection name doesn't conflict with existing connections

Commit message:

docs: clarify Bing Grounding default deployment behavior
Fix misleading documentation that suggested Bing is created 'unless
explicitly disabled'. The actual behavior is that Bing IS deployed
by default (default value 'mafbing' is non-empty) and must be
explicitly set to empty string to disable.

Addresses feedback from PR #49 review.

infra/README.md, after:

# Infrastructure Documentation

This directory contains the Bicep templates for deploying the spec-to-agents application to Azure.

## Overview

The infrastructure consists of:
- **Azure AI Foundry**: Hub for AI models and agents
- **Container Apps**: Hosts the web application
- **Container Registry**: Stores Docker images
- **Bing Grounding (Optional)**: Provides web search capabilities for agents
- **Monitoring**: Application Insights and Log Analytics

## Deployment

Deploy the infrastructure using Azure Developer CLI:

```bash
# Deploy everything (provision + deploy)
azd up

# Just provision infrastructure
azd provision

# Just deploy application code
azd deploy
```

## Configuration

### Bing Grounding Connection

The infrastructure includes optional support for Bing Grounding, which enables agents to perform real-time web searches.

**To enable Bing Grounding:**

Set the `BING_GROUNDING_NAME` environment variable before running `azd up`:

```bash
# Set the Bing resource name
azd env set BING_GROUNDING_NAME mybing

# Deploy the infrastructure
azd up
```

**Default behavior:**
- The parameter in `main.parameters.json` has a default value of `mafbing`, which means Bing Grounding WILL be deployed by default
- To prevent Bing Grounding from being deployed, you must set `BING_GROUNDING_NAME` to an empty string before running `azd up`

**To disable Bing Grounding:**

```bash
# Set to empty string to skip Bing deployment
azd env set BING_GROUNDING_NAME ""

# Deploy the infrastructure
azd up
```

**What gets deployed:**
- A new Bing Grounding resource (kind: `Bing.Grounding`, SKU: `G1`)
- A connection from the AI Foundry account to the Bing resource
- The connection uses API key authentication
- Category: `GroundingWithBingSearch`

**Outputs:**
After deployment, the following outputs are available:
- `BING_GROUNDING_NAME`: Name of the Bing resource
- `BING_GROUNDING_ID`: Resource ID of the Bing resource
- `BING_CONNECTION_NAME`: Name of the connection in AI Foundry

**Using Bing Grounding in agents:**
Agents can reference the Bing connection by name (`bing-grounding`) to perform web searches. The connection is configured to allow agents to use it for grounding their responses with real-time web data.

### Other Parameters

The following parameters can be configured via environment variables:

- `AZURE_ENV_NAME`: Environment name (required)
- `AZURE_LOCATION`: Azure region (required)
- `AI_FOUNDRY_NAME`: Name prefix for AI Foundry account (default: `foundry`)
- `FOUNDRY_PROJECT_NAME`: Name prefix for AI Foundry project (default: `project`)

## File Structure

```
infra/
├── main.bicep                  # Main orchestration template
├── main.parameters.json        # Parameter mappings from environment variables
├── abbreviations.json          # Resource naming abbreviations
└── app/                        # Application-specific modules
    ├── ai-foundry.bicep        # AI Foundry account and project
    ├── bing-grounding.bicep    # Bing Grounding connection
    ├── container-app.bicep     # Container Apps environment and app
    ├── container-registry.bicep # Azure Container Registry
    └── monitoring.bicep        # Application Insights and Log Analytics
```

## Validation

To validate the Bicep templates without deploying:

```bash
cd infra
az bicep build --file main.bicep
```

Note: You may see warnings about conditional resources (BCP318, BCP422) and Bing resource types (BCP081). These are expected and do not prevent deployment.

## Troubleshooting

### Bing Grounding deployment fails

If the Bing Grounding deployment fails:
1. Ensure your subscription has the Bing resource provider registered
2. Verify that the Bing resource name is globally unique
3. Check that your subscription has quota for Bing Grounding resources

### Connection creation fails

If the connection creation fails:
1. Ensure the AI Foundry account is deployed successfully before the Bing connection
2. Check that the Bing resource is accessible and has a valid API key
3. Verify that the connection name doesn't conflict with existing connections
